- # #[[Space Mentorship]]: #[[Donya Divsalar]]
	- ## Meeting Notes
		- ### Meeting 1 2023-03-22 4:00pm EST
			- {{embed ((641b4de2-999b-448b-89d2-fe90daf764c1))}}
			- Beauty of space is how broad it is
				- You can put space in front of anything and it becomes a thing
				- It's more broad than you think (equity and what it covers)
			- How to tie space into it, in terms of graduate studies and entrepreneurship
				- Find that gap, even if "people have thought about it" --> this is where you identify how you are different and how your solutions is different
					- This will attract other people to your idea
					- It's about perspetive
				- She started her company at same time as masters
					- It was tough because they drift away in terms of projects, but stays similar in terms of content and learning
					- PI supervision (are they supportive of entrepreneurship) and IP for creating it into a business (very important)
				- It's not just the name (CSA), it's more about networking other academics, engineers, and companies
					- Networking strategically, you want to break into a niche
			- SEDS Canada can be a way to test your completed hardware (specifically non-human flight)
				- They have space flight sims, high-altitude balloons, etc.
				- If you win the competition
			- CSA has testing for students for testing payloads on balloons
			- Can also talk to student teams (satellite, rocket)
				- Get minorly involved with them (sub-teams)
				- Meet like-minded people
		- Breaking into space industry
			- You need to just put yourself out there and start talking
			- Good org: [Space Generation Advisory Council](https://spacegeneration.org/)
				- Mention in application that you are new and looking to get involved
			- Good conference: [International Astronautical Congress IAC](https://www.iafastro.org/events/iac/)
				- Crazy ideas, good networking, not as much for learning hard science
				- CSA not supporting students going this year due to security (they have grants for meals, travel, etc.)
					- ISEB: The International Space Education Board (ISEB) brings together ten space agencies with the aim of increasing STEM literacy and supporting the future workforce needs of space programs.
					- Competitive!!!
					- Need one recommendation letter
			- Don't get stuck just networking with students
				- If you are the smartest in the room then you need a bigger room
				- Keep pushing bigger and broader
			- It's great doing presentations and posters and stuff but networking is more valuable
			- Starting entrepreneurship in grad or not
				- It was good because supervisor became involved into it
				- OS is great but at some point you have to look at what you want to do
				- You get into a loop of what does supervisor want versus what you want, academia eventually ends but this business might be much longer
				- Don't do it if you don't need it. REALLY ASK YOURSELF WHY
					- It can be really rough so you have to love it a lot
					- Scrap the idea of the next logical step if it doesn't help you
					- If you could just do it today could you? What do you need? Grad school? Industry experience?
				- Grad school allowed her to start slowly
			- Again: anything can be space, even "non-space" stuff
				- Find another PI that's space
				- Bridge the two labs
				- CSA, ESA (Canada is member state, they have training, funding; just fun to live in Europe)
			- Do as much fun such as conferences that you can on their dime, make grad time count
				- Also good for exposure and networking
				- Inform people about what you think is important
			- A lot happens in USA that Canadians can do that you think you can't do
	- ## Literature Review
	  collapsed:: true
		- [[@ Donya Naz Divsalar]], [[@Donya Naz Divsalar]], [[@Donya Naz Divsalar]]; [[@Donya Naz Divsaler]]
			- Donya Divsaler is the co-founder and CEO of Caidin Biotechnologies, a startup that aims to improve human health and performance in extreme environments, such as outer space, through biomedical advancements. She was accepted into Canada’s First Lunar Payload Accelerator for a product that monitors and improves astronaut health on long-term spaceflight missions. She also serves the Canadian Space Agency (CSA) as a Canadian Space Ambassador and a consultant for the Science and Technology Expertise Development in Academia (STEDIA) group.
			- Bing AI Summary
				- Donya Naz Divsalar is a co-founder and CEO of Caidin Biotechnologies 12. She obtained her B.Sc. Honours degree from Simon Fraser University (SFU) in Health Sciences in 2019 and is currently a Master of Sciences Candidate with the Aerospace Physiology Laboratory at SFU 34.
				- Prior to immigrating to Canada in 2014, Donya attended Debrecen Medical School in Hungary 3. For her undergraduate honours thesis, Donya designed and executed one of the very first space health initiatives done at the student level: examining the effects of cosmic radiation on reversal of HIV latency using a fully customized and student-made CubeSat payload 3.
				- She is also a founder of SFU Aerospace, which is the second student-run aerospace organization in Canada. She was also a winner of Surrey Board of Trade’s Top 25 Under 25 for the year 2019 3. Through her graduate studies, Donya focuses on studying bedrest as an analogue for space to assess physiological deconditioning in astronauts and centrifugation as a countermeasure for reversing adverse effects of spaceflight on human body 3.
				- [1. ca.linkedin.com](https://ca.linkedin.com/in/donyanazdivsalar); [2. sspi.org](https://www.sspi.org/cpages/donya-naz-divsaler); [3. asc-csa.gc.ca](https://www.asc-csa.gc.ca/eng/ambassadors/profile.asp?id=10); [4. northernlightsaerofoundation.com](https://northernlightsaerofoundation.com/wall-of-fame/donya-naz-divsalar/)
		- [[@Caidin]]
			- Bing AI Summary
				- Caidin is a Canadian biotechnology company based in Vancouver, BC 12. The company was born from the efforts of university students from both physiology and engineering backgrounds passionate about driving human potential further 2. They believe in building innovative technology that bolsters human health and drives human performance further 2.
		- [[@A spacecraft-compatible combined artificial gravity and exercise (CAGE) system to sustain astronaut health in the next generation of long-term spaceflight]]
			- Bing AI Summary
			  collapsed:: true
				- The article you mentioned is titled “A spacecraft-compatible combined artificial gravity and exercise (CAGE) system to sustain astronaut health in the next generation of long-term spaceflight” 1. It was published in the Journal of Space Safety Engineering Volume 9, Issue 4, December 2022 1.
				- The article discusses how human spaceflight exposes astronauts to prolonged periods of microgravity and high doses of radiation, leading to life-threatening cardiovascular, musculoskeletal and neurological damage 2. One of the most dangerous effects of microgravity is the accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid in the intracranial space 2. The authors propose a design for a Combined Artificial Gravity and Exercise (CAGE) device that would be compatible with commercial spacecrafts and space stations as well as Lunar bases 2. The CAGE features a customized squat module built at the circumference of a centrifuge apparatus. Squatting activates a full-body workout that allows for an efficient shift of fluid towards the lower body while preventing muscle and bone density loss 2.
		- [[@Ansellone J, a Potent in Vitro and ex Vivo HIV-1 Latency Reversal Agent Isolated from a Phorbas sp. Marine Sponge]]
			- Bing AI Summary
				- The article discusses how five new minor sesterterpenoids have been isolated from a Phorbas sp. marine sponge collected in British Columbia. Their structures have been elucidated by detailed analysis of NMR and MS data. Ansellone J (6) and phorone C (8) are potent in vitro HIV-1 latency reversal agents that are more potent than the reference compound and control protein kinase C activator prostratin (3).
		- [[@Canadian aging and inactivity study: Spaceflight-inspired exercises during head-down tilt bedrest blunted reductions in muscle-pump but not cardiac baroreflex in older persons]]
			- Bing AI Summary
				- As part of the first Canadian aging and inactivity study (CAIS), the authors assessed the efficacy of space-based exercise countermeasures for maintenance of cardiac and muscle-pump baroreflex in older persons during bedrest 1. The study involved 14 days of 6-degree head-down tilt bedrest (HDBR) with (Exercise) or without (Control) combined upper and lower body strength, aerobic, and high-intensity interval training exercise countermeasures 1.
				- The study found that 2 weeks of bedrest impaired skeletal muscle’s ability to return blood to the venous circulation differently across various sexes and intervention groups. The proposed exercises may alleviate muscle-pump baroreflex declines but could not influence the cardiac baroreflex decline from 14 days of inactivity in older adults 3.
		- [[@Diversifying the Next Generation of Canadian Aerospace Workforce Through a CubeSat Development Mission]]
			- Bing AI Summary
				- The paper you mentioned is titled “Diversifying the Next Generation of Canadian Aerospace Workforce Through a CubeSat Development Mission” 1. It was presented at the 43rd Committee on Space Research (COSPAR) Scientific Assembly 2020/2021 2.
				- The paper discusses how CubeSat development missions have provided many students with a relatively affordable opportunity to get involved in tangible aerospace projects that expand the scope of STEM knowledge for youth in Canada 1.
		- [[@EXAMINING EFFECTS OF COSMIC RADIATION ON THE ACTIVITY OF HIV-1 LATENCY REVERSAL USING CUBESAT PAYLOADS  IAC Archive — IAC-19/A1/4/6]]
			- Bing AI Summary
				- Here’s a summary of the paper: “Examining Effects of Cosmic Radiation on the Activity of HIV-1 Latency Reversal Using Cubesat Payloads” is a paper by Donya Naz Divsalar and others. The paper discusses how Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy (HAART) can suppress HIV replication but does not act on latent viral reservoirs. “Shock and kill” therapeutic approaches aim to re-awaken viral expression in HIV reservoir-containing cells and target those cells for elimination. Latency Reversal Agents (LRAs) that effectively stimulate virus production could potentially reduce viral persistence in people living with HIV. The experiment is designed to determine the effect of exposure to cosmic radiation on the activity of LRAs using Cubesat technology. A modified version of the experiment will be conducted as a payload of a 3U Cubesat developed by the SFU Satellite Design team with a projected launch date into lower Earth orbit in summer 2021. The findings from this experiment will inform drug responsiveness under exposure to radiation and contribute to development of an approach to manage and potentially find a cure for HIV using emerging aerospace technologies.
		- [[@Excellence in Science Public Engagement and Outreach Award winners announced]]
			- Bing AI Summary
				- Here’s a summary of the page: The Faculty of Science at Simon Fraser University has announced its 2021 Excellence in Science Public Engagement and Outreach Award winners. The winners are Caroline Colijn, Miriam Rosin, and Donya Divsalar. This annual award was established in 2017 to recognize contributions toward community engagement and outreach in the Faculty of Science. A new award category was established this year to recognize Distinction in Science Communication and Policy Impact which was awarded to Professor Caroline Colijn for her research that has been central to the public health response to Covid-191.
		- [[@From Cubesats to Mars: Space Health with no Limits]]
			- Bing AI Summary
				- Here’s a summary of the article: “From Cubesats to Mars: Space Health with no Limits” is a guest blog by Donya Naz Divsalar. Donya is a Master of Sciences student at the Aerospace Physiology Laboratory at Simon Fraser University. In this article, she shares her experience working with Mission Control under a Mitacs internship to help design a variant of their Mission Control Software platform for medical applications in spaceflight. She talks about her journey from being interested in space travel as a child to pursuing an undergraduate degree in epidemiology of infectious diseases and eventually founding SFU Aerospace and writing multiple papers on astronaut health. She also discusses her collaboration with Mission Control through Mitacs Accelerate Fellowship and how it helped her learn new skills applicable to aerospace careers1.
		- [[@IAF EARTH OBSERVATION SYMPOSIUM (B1) Earth Observation Applications, Societal Challenges and Economic Beneﬁts (5)]]
			- Bing AI Summary
				- Based on the abstract you provided, the paper discusses the design of ALEASAT, a 1U Earth-imaging CubeSat that aims to provide on-demand satellite imagery directly to Amateur Radio Operators (AROs) during disaster relief efforts. The paper highlights the challenges faced by traditional disaster relief efforts in retrieving data from current Earth observation satellites through conventional communication infrastructure, which may fail during an emergency. ALEASAT addresses this shortcoming by allowing AROs to send a request with a set of coordinates to the ALEASAT team, who will approve the request and provide an authentication key for direct communication with ALEASAT. During the next available pass, ALEASAT will capture the image and the ARO can retrieve it directly from the satellite.
		- [[@Northern Lights announces 2022 Elsie Award recipients]]
			- TODO Finish Donya Lit Review
	- ## Handbook Notes
		- #gpt prompt: "Make the following as concise as possible in point form without losing any information or meaning:"
		- Intro
		  collapsed:: true
			- This guide is a reference for the Zenith Canada Pathways Mentorship Program this year.
			- Use this guide to get tips and tricks throughout the meetings.
			- Take notes during each meeting using the provided pages for future reference.
			- This handbook is for both mentors and mentees.
			- Six hour-long sessions are recommended throughout the year, but meeting times can be decided by the individuals in the match.
			- The meeting topics listed are not required, and the meetings can be defined as the individuals see fit.
			- I am your point-of-contact for all mentorship matters this year. - Britt Wiseman, Mentorship Coordinator, britt@zenithpathways.ca
		- What is the Zenith Fellowship
		  collapsed:: true
			- Space career development program by Zenith Canada Pathways Foundation.
				- Provides opportunities in the Canadian space sector for underrepresented and disadvantaged groups.
				- Volunteer-based organization for a more inclusive space sector.
				- Evaluation of applicants' essays, creative pieces, references, community involvement, and academic proficiency.
				- Two-fold program provides internships and mentorship.
			- Zenith Fellow Mentees participate in professional development and community engagement opportunities.
			- Zenith Fellow Interns intern at Host Organizations.
			- Modeled after successful programs such as the Brooke Owens Fellowship and the Patti Grace Smith Fellowship.
		- Mentorship Program Overview
		  collapsed:: true
			- Mentorship program time commitment of at least six hours total for the length of the fellowship.
			- Mentors act as role models, participate in goal development and reflection practices.
			- Option to continue mentor/mentee relationship after program.
			- Communicate with Zenith Canada Pathways team for concerns or feedback.
			- Annual Zenith Fellowship Summit in Montreal, Quebec in July 2023.
		- Expectations for Fellows
		  collapsed:: true
			- Fellows are expected to reach out to their Mentor to plan each meeting.
				- Reminders will be sent every 1.5-2 months through email.
				- It is recommended to space out meetings over the year and not leave multiple meetings until the last minute.
				- Fellows should email their Mentor at least 2-3 weeks ahead of time to plan each meeting and provide 3 different dates/times for scheduling.
				- Plan for the next meeting at the end of each session or set up recurring meetings at an agreed-upon cadence.
			- Both parties should be aware of the intent/goal behind the upcoming meeting and come prepared.
			- Fellows are recommended to use the space provided in the handbook to take notes.
			- At the end of the match, Fellows are requested to write a thank-you note to their mentor.
			- A halfway check-in will be done throughout the year, and Fellows are encouraged to reach out if they need advice or have concerns.
			- There will be fun events for Fellows to meet each other and engage with mentors across the Canadian space sector. A virtual panel/Q&A event will be held in early-mid April 2023, and an email confirmation will be sent.
		- Meeting Outlines
			- Meeting 1: Getting to Know Each Other
			  id:: 641b4de2-999b-448b-89d2-fe90daf764c1
				- Goal: Get to know each other better
				- Share if you have goals related to graduate school, professional programs or personal achievements
				- Questions to ask your mentor:
					- What do you do in the industry?
					- How did you get to where you are?
					- When did you know you wanted to do X?
					- Can you tell me more about X industry you are involved in?
				- Questions for mentors to ask mentees:
					- What is your area of specialization/interest?
					- What are your career goals?
					- What is your tie to the Canadian space sector, and why do you want to build a career in it?
					- How can I best help you? What are you looking to gain from having a mentor?
			- Meeting 2: Career Path
				- Learn about your mentor's industry
				- This meeting will help you pursue your own career
				- Insight on work-life balance, daily routine, and industry direction
				- Understand how they got where they are and how you can too
				- Come prepared with specific questions about their industry and life path
			- Meeting 3: Programs, Training and Network Sharing
				- This session is about planning next steps in your professional journey.
				- Discuss potential programs for graduate school/professional development.
				- Consider whether to stay in Canada or go abroad.
				- Discuss preparing for applying to jobs in the industry.
				- Consider shorter training programs or research projects.
				- Have a network sharing opportunity and meet new people in the industry.
				- Follow-up with new contacts and thank your mentor for expanding your network.
			- Meeting 4: CV and Cover Letters
				- CV and cover letter session
				- Come prepared with application materials
				- Mentor will help edit and cater based on your goals
				- Make sure to establish ahead of time if you are doing this session
				- Have a strong rough draft ready for feedback.
			- Meeting 5: Pseudo Professional Interview
				- Preparing for next career goal
				- Mentor conducts and gives feedback on an interview
				- Type of interview varies (job vs MMI)
				- Inform mentor ahead of time
				- Provide interview format and specific questions if desired
				- Aim for 30-40 minute interview with time for feedback
				- Possible questions
					- Why do you want to work here/do this program?
					- Tell me about a time you experienced conflict and what you did about it?
					- Tell me about a time you were challenged during the pursuit of a goal and how you overcame it?
					- Tell me about your role in X project/research, etc
					- What is a unique thing about you/a passion that you have outside of academia and your professional interests?
			- Meeting 6: Recap and Reflection
				- Your final meeting with your mentor.
				- You can use this time to reflect on your experience in the program and to plan your next steps.
				- Reflect on your progress and discuss your future goals.
				- Use the time to discuss essays or application materials, or just chat.
				- Establish a way to stay in touch with your mentor after the program ends.
- # #Tasks
	- TODO Action items from meeting
	  SCHEDULED: <2023-04-01 Sat>
	- DONE [#A] Read handbook
	  SCHEDULED: <2023-03-22 Wed>
	- DONE [#A] Donya Lit review
	  SCHEDULED: <2023-03-22 Wed>